# Introduction #

Upgrading from version 3 to version 5.2.1


# Details #

There are a lot of changes from version 3. However, the basic functionalities are unchanged. We've added things, but taken away nothing, and so once your have your new version installed, just proceed as before.

There is something to make sure of, however, before you and your team finish with version 3. (Incidently, don't remove version 3 from any of your computers for the time being, it will handle the data formats for all versions up to 5.2.1 and 5.2.2. It won't, however, for the  forthcoming 5.3.0, and 5.3.0 will automatically transition the underlying data formats for the documents and knowledge base (KB) invisibly. Nothing will be different as far as the screen or appearance or work flow is concerned, but under the hood we've made some improvements - including datetime stamping of knowledge base entries, in preparation for when we bring out versions which support having a KB on a LAN or on the web, and eventually, a web-based version as well.)

Please check this. Make sure that everyone is saving their documents in XML format in their version 3. Versions 3.anything can save in the older binary format (filenames have an .adt extension) or xml format (filenames have an .xml extension). Versions 4 and 5 no longer read or write the older binary files, they read and write only in xml format. So make sure that every document in the project folders which people want to be able to read in future, has been saved in xml format (and that will ensure the KB is saved in xml format as well). The File menu command "Save Documents and KB as XML" needs to be ticked, and then just open each document that has an **.adt extension, move the phrase box somewhere else, and do File / Save - and that will convert the binary document to xml.**

The version you want to use is the most current, which at the time this was posted was 5.2.1, if you are using the Unicode version. If you are using the ANSI (regular) version, then use 5.2.2 or 5.2.1. (We don't have a 5.2.2 for Unicode version, because Unicode is not supported on Windows 95 nor Windows 98.)

There are a few things that you will find different. The most obvious one is that the vertical scroll bar will go from the start to the end of the whole document - the document is no longer cut up into 'bundles' which limit how far the scroll car can move. Second, you'll find you don't need to use the consistent changes table I sent you in order to get a free translation export - we now provided an Export-Import menu, and there is a command there to export the free translation. Third, our lead developer (it's Bill Martin now, no longer me) has built in a "Change Interface Language..." command on the View menu. Click it and you'll see the languages listed for which there is a translated interface. English, and others are listed there. To use one, just click it and click OK. Then shut the application down and relaunch it. It will then use the selected language for its interface. Since we've added more commands in versions 4 and 5, the interfaces other than English & Tok Pisin are only partly localized - so you'll see some English text here and there. Some day we hope to get someone to complete these localizations - and if you want to sponsor that talk to Bill about it (Bill\_Martin@sil.org). The Adapt It team may be able to find some funds to pay your translators for doing the needed additional translation work, if you want to go ahead on that.

Another thing in 5.2.1 is that there is a hidden "Administrator" menu, which is password protected. We are going to progressively add commands to this menu. We are starting to support a distinction between a relatively non-geek naive user who doesn't need a lot of the commands and who is protected from making errors to some extent, and a more skilled project advisor or administrator person, who has the responsibility for setting up the naive user for his or her work. In 5.2.1 what's there is a set of commands for having the work folder in a custom location, and a Move Or Copy Folders Or Files command which puts up a file & folder browser, with two panes, and offers Win Explorer like capabilities, except the direction of moves or copies is from the left to the right pane. In the forthcoming 5.3.0 we have removed that left to right directionality and added a Peek command (to let you look at the start of a file's contents). The password for the Administrator menu can be defined to be any 5 or more characters, but "admin" will always work (without the quotes of course). We don't want it blazed about that admin is hard coded though. Also, in the project config file, anyone could type a password of their own choosing at the approprate place, and then it would work when the app is launched, but there is a command for setting one in the Administrator menu itself. The password is stored in the config file in the clear (except we don't store admin there). We aren't trying to lock the naive user out of the administrator menu absolutely, but just make it hard or unlikely he or she will work out how to get in there - commands there are dangerous in the hands of someone unsure of what he or she is doing. To make the menu visible, you open Preferences..., go to the View tab, and you'll see a checkbox at the bottom. Click it and  you'll be asked for the password, etc.

Now, which one should you download? Assuming you use the Unicode version, and you have a good internet connection that can handle a 15MB download, then I'd recomment you download "Adapt\_It\_WX\_5\_2\_1\_Unicode.exe" which is the full installer for the unicode version. It includes online helps accessible from the Help menu (the helps are all in English unfortunately, we've not the resources to get them translated).

If you have to get a smaller download, then you can get just the separate downloads you'd need, and then install each bit one after the other, starting with the application's installer. Again assuming Unicode:
1. "Adapt\_It\_WX\_5\_2\_1\_Unicode\_Minimal.exe"   that's a 2.2MB download
2. "Adapt\_It\_WX\_Unicode\_Localizations\_Only.exe" to get the localizations material  that makes the Change Interface Language... command work.

That's the minimum if you want to be able to change the interface language.
If you also want online helps - then download 3. Adapt\_It\_WX\_5\_2\_1\_Unicode\_Documentation\_Only.exe
(Installing 1. 2. and 3. is the equivalent of doing the single 15.3MB download and install I mentioned first.)

(If you are using the Regular Adapt It 3.something and want to continue with a Regular version, then install the Regular equivalents for the above).