#summary How to change from the default method of storing documents to Book Folder Mode.
#labels Featured,Phase-QA

= Introduction =

The default method for storing documents in an Adapt It project is to keep them all in a folder called _Adaptations_. This method works well when you do not need to store a large number of documents. However, if you have decided to break down a book into chapters, you may want to consider using Book Folder mode. 

When you switch to Book Folder mode, Adapt It creates 67 subfolders in the Adaptations folder. Each of these folders is named for a book of the Bible with the addition of a generic folder called _Other Texts_. Thus you can store the adaptation documents for each book in its own folder. 

= Procedure =

For the purposes of this procedure, assume that you wish to work with the book of Luke and you are creating a new project.
  # Open the new project in Adapt It and proceed until you get to the Document Dialog. 
  # Open your Luke document so that it appears in Adapt It’s Main Window.
  # On the _Advanced_ menu, click the *Storing Documents in Book Folders* 
  # Adapt It prompts you about saving the changes. Accept the changes.
    Adapt It saves the Luke document into the _Adaptations_ folder for now.
  # Adapt It Opens the Document dialog again. This time the Book Folder mode status should be *On* and the dialog tells you that documents are being stored to a particular folder. Usually this will be _Matthew_. 
  # Click the *Change Folder …* button. 
  # Select *New Testament books* if it is not already selected.
  # Select *Luke* in the Drop down box on the right.
  # Click *OK*
Adapt It now wants you to select a document; however, you have saved Luke in the Adaptations folder. Now, you just want to move it into the _Luke_ folder. 
  # Click *Cancel*. 
  # Adapt It may give you several warning messages. Click *OK* to clear those messages. 
  # Open the _Tools_ menu and select the _Move Document…_ option.
Adapt It opens a _Move A Document_ dialog showing all of the documents in the _Adaptations_ folder. Two of them should refer to Luke. Both have a file extension of *xml* and one also has a file extension of *BAK*.
  # Be sure that the *From the Adaptations folder to the current book folder* option is selected.
  # Select one of the two documents and click *Move Now*.
Adapt It tells you that the document has been successfully moved.
  # Repeat the process for the second document.
  # Click *Close*.
  # Open the _File_ menu and select the _Open_ option or press *Ctrl+O*.
Adapt It opens the Document dialog again and this time shows the two documents in the _Luke_ folder. 
  # Select the document which _does not_ include *BAK* in the filename. (BAK stands for Backup.)
  # Click *Finish*
Adapt It opens the main window with the document ready for adaptation.