Basic-tests-for-Adapt-It-packages.txt
by Bill Martin
4 June 2012

There are some basic tests that I do for each distribution package 
(both i386 and amd64) by installing the packages in an appropriate 
VirtualBox VM, and performing some basic tests. The tests are mainly 
done to insure that the package installs properly and is not missing 
some component needed by an Adapt It function when it runs.

Here are the steps for basic testing:

1. Remove all vestiges of any previous installation of Adapt It:
      sudo dpkg --purge adaptit-docs
      sudo dpkg --purge adaptit

2. Install the package being tested in the appropriate VM:
     sudo dpkg -i adaptit_6.2.2-1_i386.deb
     sudo dpkg -i adaptit-docs_6.2.2-1_all.deb

3. Run adaptit from the Office menu (or by searching for "adapit" in 
Unity). It should run and the interface should indicate its running 
status with the appropriate icon in the interface. Select "About Adapt 
It..." from the Help menu and ensure that the version and date shown 
there match your expectations for the release.

4. Check that the HTML Help files have installed properly by selecting 
Help > Help Topics. The help viewer should appear with the HTML help 
tree contained within it. This is the only test step that requires the 
adaptit-docs package be installed.

5. Check that the localization files (.mo and .po) have installed 
properly by selecting the "Change Interface Language..." from the View 
menu. The dialog that opens should show about 8 different languages in 
the Unicode version (6 in the ANSI version), that can be selected from. 
If the language names show up in the list in the dialog that is 
probably a sufficient test that a given localization will appear in the 
interface (after an Adapt It restart).

6. Check that the "Adapt It Quick Start" html document will appear in 
the user's default browser by selecting "Adapt It Quick Start..." from 
the Help menu. Quickly scroll through the document to ensure that its 
small images of various toolbar buttons appear in the document 
(indicating AI can find the images as well as the 
Adapt_It_Quick_Start.htm document.

7. Make the Administrator menu appear via the menu item on the View menu. 
Then select the "Help For Administrators (HTML)" item on the 
Administrator menu. Scroll down through the document to ensure that it 
was able to find its images.

8. Select Edit > Preferences, then go to the "Backups and Misc" tab. 
Click on the "Lookup Codes" button. It should bring up the list of 
several thousand language codes (both two-letter and three-letter codes). 
If the list gets populated it indicates that the iso639-3codes.txt file 
was installed properly and loaded successfully.

9. Install Bibledit and/or Paratext for Linux on the test machine/VM, 
and copy at least one AI project folder including the "Adapt It Unicode 
Work" folder to the test machine. Also copy the .bibledit folder from 
another Bibledit installation into the user's home folder and/or data 
from a "Paratext Projects" folder that can be used to test collaboration 
setup and basic collaboration operations. Test collaboration setup using 
the "Setup Collaboration..." menu item and dialog. Select an existing AI 
project, Select an editor project for source text and an editor project 
for target text. "Accept" the defined setup. Close the Setup 
Collaboration dialog and select the AI project from the wizard. Ensure 
that the 3-button dialog appears, select the top button to turn 
collaboration on, then select a book and chapter from the "Get Source 
Text from PT/BE Project" dialog. If a collaboration project appears for 
adaptation, the collaboration setup and test can be considered successful.

